♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
[Millie] Five, four,
three, two, one.
Ready or not, here I come!
Gotcha!
[laughs]
You're it!
Everybody, Rumy's it!
-Yay!
-Your turn, Rumy.
Okay. Three, two, one.
Ready or not, here I come!
[rustling]
Aha! Gotcha!
-Ahh!
Oh, I'm sorry. I thought
you were one of my friends.
We're playing hide-and-seek tag.
I'm Rumy!
Nice to meet you. I'm Fergus.
I'm playing follow the leader
with my friend Poe.
Hey, everybody,
come out and meet Fergus!
-Hi, Fergus!
He's playing follow the leader.
I love follow the leader.
There's so much
following and leading,
Don't you need someone else
to follow or lead?
[laughs] Of course!
I was following my friend Poe.
You guys wanna play with us?
-Sure!
-Sounds good to me!
Okay. Follow me.
Ooh, an apple! I love apples!
[yells]
[all gasp]
[spits]
This happens all the time to me.
I must be the clumsiest wolf
in the whole forest.
Fergus, you're not clumsy.
It looks like somebody
did this on purpose.
This was a mean prank.
[bird gasps] Oh, no.
Fergus, what happened?!
Oh, hey, Poe.
I fell in a hole again.
But look
at the new friends I made.
I'm Poe.
Happy to meet you guys.
-Hi, Poe!
-Hey there!
[laughs]
So you fell in another hole?
Someone played a prank on him.
Toby and Teri
are gonna find out who!
They're detectives.
They use clues and follow facts.
Can you really find out
who's doing this to me?
We can, and we will.
That's a promise, Fergus.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
[Teri] Someone's
playing tricks on Fergus.
and we have to figure out who.
We've gotta stop this prankster
before somebody
really gets hurt.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
Okay, let's find
this mean prankster.
Time to follow the facts.
Or we could just follow
the footprints.
It looks like our prankster
went this way. Look!
That was quick.
How'd you find that so fast?
What can I say?
It's what detectives do.
Now come on!
That's my line.
Guys, it looks like
the prankster went this way.
See? The tracks
go right up this log.
[Fergus] Whoa!
Another prank!
Look at all those ropes.
Whoever did this
knows about ropes
and pulleys and pranks.
That's what you call physics,
or so they tell me.
Now come here.
Let me clean you up.
I'll always pick you up
when you fall. [laughs]
But you sure fall a lot.
[grunts]
There.
Thanks, Poe.
Are you kidding?
We're best friends.
That what friends do.
Now let's find that prankster.
I bet he left more footprints.
He did! They're over here!
Then that's the way we're going.
You see, Tony, a good detective
follows the clues
and uses the facts.
Now come on, guys.
Let's shake a leg.
Toby. My name is Toby.
You gotta give it to him.
Poe is really good
at finding clues.
Clues that lead us
straight into pranks.
Wait. You think that's a clue?
Totally! Write that down.
You got it.
[sniffs]
Half a huckleberry jam sandwich.
The prankster must have left it.
If we find the other half,
it'll lead us straight to him.
Or her. We don't know.
[sniffs]
Hey, look.
Here's the other half.
Oh ho!
Good sandwich spotting, Fergus!
He's right. Look, guys.
Wait! That might be a prank!
Millie, don't!
-[all gasp]
-Not again.
Eww! Yuck!
We're covered in jam!
Sorry. I know
this was a messy prank,
but it's still jam. Mmm.
So Poe's clues led us
right into another prank.
Funny how that happened.
I've got an idea.
You guys head
back to the treehouse.
I made some lemonade!
I'm sure there are cookies!
[cheering]
Aren't you guys gonna come?
Sure. We'll be right there.
We've used Poe's clues, and
all it's gotten us is messy.
Let's take back
this investigation
and follow some real facts.
Now, that's
what real detectives do.
[camera clicking]
I drew up diagrams
of the pranks.
I'd say
whoever put these together
knows what they're doing.
But if our prankster
is so clever,
why'd he leave footprints
where we could follow them?
Maybe he wanted us
to follow them.
Look! This is where they end.
-Look at this.
-The prankster used that
to make a trail to the pranks.
Look what else is back there!
A feather.
[gasps] I bet I know
who this belongs to.
-Poe!
But why would Poe
play tricks on Fergus?
Aren't they best friends?
Listen to this!
Ravens and wolves help each
other find food and stay safe,
but Ravens like to make a game
of teasing wolf pups.
Not around here, they don't.
Friends don't tease friends
in Acorn Springs.
[laughs]
Fergus loves swings,
but when he swings on this one,
he's gonna end up
covered in berries.
It's gonna be hilarious!
[laughs]
Oh. Here they come.
Huh, Poe sure was in a hurry.
Now where'd he go?
Poe, where are you?!
Look! A swing!
Oh, no! Fergus, stop!
Don't worry. I got this.
[Poe chuckles]
Boo!
[screaming]
[yells]
Poe! What happened?
Poe's the one who's been
pulling pranks, Fergus.
And he just got caught
in his own prank.
That doesn't make sense.
Friends are nice to each other.
Fergus said you guys
were best friends.
[sighs] We are.
Then why did you
play tricks on me?
I thought it was funny.
I never thought
about how it made you feel.
Well, it made me feel bad.
You made me feel bad.
I know that now.
I'm sorry, Fergus.
I really am.
No more pranks. I promise.
Can we still be friends?
If you stop pulling pranks,
we can be best friends.
Hey, you know what friends do?
They give hugs?
They share snacks?
They build models of
rocket ships and time machines.
Maybe they could really work.
Then they could all go
on amazing adventures together,
'cause they're friends.
Yes, uh, friends do all that,
and they play
hide-and-seek tag!
[Jay] Okay, everybody hide!
Poe, you're it!
[laughs]
I'm so excited.
Okay, everyone,
three, two, one.
Ready or not, here I come!
Hey, everybody, say, "Friends"!
-Friends!
[camera clicks]
You know, I think
Poe finally understands
that pulling pranks isn't nice.
Yeah. By following the facts,
we helped him learn
to be a better friend.
How cool is that?
Very cool.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
The Case of the Reckless Raven
is officially closed.
[Teri laughs]
I think this is going to be
our best Fall Festival yet.
Hey, isn't it time
for the Great Horned Owl
to swoop in and
tell us who he's chosen
to be Shining Star
of the Fall Festival?
[gasps] Look, everyone.
Here he comes!
My dear friends
of Acorn Springs,
I am honored to announce
this year's Shining Star
of the Fall Festival.
Oh! Who's it gonna be?
Who's it gonna be?
Every year, we present this
great honor to the individual
who has the best design
for our Friendship Tower,
and we will build it together
under his or her leadership.
And there's a crown.
There's always a crown.
This year Shining Star is...
Bean!
-[laughs]
-[cheering]
Wait a minute.
Where is he?
[sighs]
What a great day.
You know what, Jack?
You're the best tree
a squirrel could ask for.
[Rumy] Aww, I didn't know
it was Hug a Tree Day.
Whoa! [chuckles]
Hi, guys.
Bean, you missed
the announcement.
Yeah, they crowned the
Shining Star of the Festival.
Oh, no!
I totally lost track of time.
Who is it?
Who's the Shining Star?
It's you, Bean!
Me? As in me, me?
Wait. Wait. Wait. Are you sure?
Yep. I distinctly heard him say,
"Bean," or, "Green."
No one named Green
lives in Acorn Springs.
It was definitely you.
I can't believe it.
I've always wanted
to be Shining Star.
Every year, I send a design,
but I've never won until now!
[laughs]
I'm so excited!
Wait.
There's something
for each of you
in my Friendship Tower.
-Really nice.
-Whoa! Faboo!
The best part, we're all
going to build it together
at the Festival!
I know! I'm the Shining Star.
I'm-- I'm really
the Shining Star.
Can you believe it, Jack?
My dream has come true.
Did you say, "Jack"?
Of course.
Jack is my tree friend.
I spent all summer and fall
relaxing in his shade
and playing in his branches.
I even sketched my design
right here up against his trunk.
That's pretty cool.
I didn't know
I wanted a tree friend
until now.
We played together every day.
One time, we were warriors,
and another time,
we were pirates in search of--
Whew! Oops.
Ah, here you go, Jack.
You dropped this.
So, what do we do first,
Shining Star?
Well, I'm thinking, uh--
Oh, Jack, you might want
to hold on to your leaves.
Here you go, buddy. Oh.
And this one.
Oh, here's another. Huh.
Guys, he's losing
so many leaves.
I think Jack is sick.
Oh, no, Bean. Trees lose
their leaves every fall.
Yeah, Rumy's right.
Trees like Jack
lose their leaves,
because, uh--
Well, what Millie's
trying to say is because--
I-It's easy, really. Uh...
Toby, Teri,
why do trees lose their leaves?
You know,
I actually don't know why.
If you don't know
why he's losing leaves,
how do you
know he's not sick?
I'd better stay here
and take care of him.
He's my friend.
I don't think
I can take care of Jack
and be the Shining Star
for the Festival. I'm sorry.
I really wanted to build
my Friendship Tower,
but my friend needs me.
Oh, no. If we don't
have our Shining Star,
we might have to cancel
the festival.
[gasps]
What are we gonna do?
We're going to figure out
why Jack is losing his leaves
so Bean can be the Shining Star.
That's a promise.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
We know that trees
lose their leaves every fall.
We have to figure out why
so Bean will know
Jack's not sick.
And he can be the Shining Star
at the Festival.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this!
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
If we're going to figure out
why Bean's tree
is losing his leaves,
let's start here,
with oak trees.
Hmm. It's interesting.
It's like the trees let go
of their leaves on purpose.
Now that's a clue we can use.
And we know-- Whoa!
[panting]
Oh, sorry about that.
Where are you going
in such a hurry?
Oh, I'm leaving town
right after the Fall Festival,
so I'm doing
some last-minute packing.
Ohh. Have you seen
my toothbrush?
Wait. You leave Acorn Springs?
Every year. I come back
when it warms up again.
Winter is
way too cold for me.
Winter, too cold.
But it's not that cold now.
What's the rush?
Well, winter's
right around the corner.
I can tell, because the days
are getting shorter,
which means it's time
to find someplace sunny!
Oh, maybe with a pool.
Hmm, so the Killdeer
leaves town.
I wonder if that's a clue!
Well, I got to keep packing.
-Good luck solving your case.
-Thanks.
All right, Toby, let's go
follow some more facts.
Hey, guys, look!
I made a list of stuff that
might make Jack feel better.
Once he's better,
I can be the Shining Star.
Okay, five liters
of herbal tea,
a picture book, checkers,
and a knitted sweater,
size giant?
Does it have to be green?
Hey, If my buddy Bean
thinks a gigantic green sweater
will make Jack feel better,
then green, it is! Come on!
[yawns]
It looks like the hedgehogs
are getting ready to nap.
Over there by the trees,
are those voles?
[Toby]
Yup. They're collecting food.
Hello!
Whaah! Rocco! You scared me!
Sorry, but I've been looking
for you guys everywhere.
Check it out. Notice anything
different about me?
Um, are you taller?
No.
Uh, did you
used to wear glasses?
No! I just got
this awesome new coat of fur,
and just in time
for the Festival.
-It looks great.
-It looks nice.
Yeah, I get a new one
every year,
nice and thick for the winter.
Wait a second!
I just realized something!
The animals are doing
different things,
but all for the same reason.
That's right! They're
getting ready for winter!
If animals can tell winter's
coming, maybe trees can, too.
Yup! It says here a lot of trees
lose their leaves in fall
to prepare
for a long, cold winter.
So Jack's definitely not sick.
He's just getting ready
for winter!
Let's go find our Shining Star.
I really had a lot of good ideas
for the Fall Festival,
you know, for if I ever
got to be the Shining Star,
and now I could do 'em,
but only if you're
feeling better.
Are you feeling better?
Ah.
It's okay.
I'm not going anywhere.
[Toby] Bean,
we've got some great news!
Jack needs to lose his leaves
for winter,
but he'll grow brand-new ones
in the spring.
[sighs]
So Jack's not sick?
Nope. He's just preparing
for winter.
-Really?
-Yup.
Jack isn't sick.
He's just being a tree
Oh, Jack, I'm so happy
you're okay!
This means it's time for me
to be the Shining Star!
Yes, so grab your plans,
and let's get going.
We've got a tower to build.
[music playing]
[blows whistle]
[music playing only]
[cheering]
[applause and cheering]
Thank you all for making
my dream come true!
As you know, we all
have a lot to be thankful for,
most of all, our wonderful
friends here in Acorn Springs.
And now, in honor
of the Fall Festival,
my special tree friend Jack
wanted to give us
something extra special!
[drumroll plays]
It's time to go leaf jumping!
[all gasp]
Hey, everybody, say, "Leaves"!
-Leaves!
[camera clicks]
When we used the clues,
we figured out Bean's tree
wasn't sick at all.
That's right.
He was just losing his leaves
so he'd be ready for winter.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
The Case of the Friendly Oak
is officially closed.